okay beautiful are you recording
anyone note that I believe we also have
a Michael Rogers on this call this new
package manager ideas he's been thinking
about I was just thinking last night
that I don't know if I updated the
agenda somewhere ever so I was like oh
yeah we should probably go through the
you know things we want to do for the
week and then leave time for anyone to
chat about my bike
like Michael welcome so we can do that
in this view it's a little hard to tell
if it's actually recording or not
can anyone see if has it got a little
button okay great thank you so it is the
Tuesday August 22nd our 27 package
managers weekly call also sprint
planning so we'll kick things off let's
see can someone have a we'll do that
thing where you you a call out the next
person to let them let us know what
their do next but for the first bit I
will say I see a Dean congratulations
may he say hipping first how's your week
looking week is week is looking okay
[Music]
basically gonna be continuing from sort
of the continuing stuff from last week
on building the discovery stuff into
pub/sub
hopefully I'll have the how to do
discovery things working I have a job
for that out today and then tomorrow can
start on can you know work on alright
let's polish up the pup stuff part of
things that's 82 this loan you're
looking at okay it's this one all right
no no that's 81 even excellent yeah
oh it's my main one do you want is it
useful to break off the discovery stuff
into a separate issue now
okay be able to close things so yeah I
mean well the reason why this one is
there's no closing anything here is that
these are unless I want to duplicate all
of the ones that are in like Galecki FS
here right yeah these are just links to
other issues right I was gonna try it
sorry all my like I said I'm not feeling
super great so my brain is a little slow
I am gonna try to get see if I can put
in the go ipfs dinghy into here we'll
see if it's the only other one might be
okay cross your fingers
well it's yeah it's got give us and go
the purity it's like it's it's a bunch
of stuff so for the time being we'll see
oh cool thank you yeah
you get to choose your successor all
right cool
Dominic what's up
hey y'all so basically I've just been
lately I've been thinking about how to
take the work that I've been doing and
put it into a like reviewable PR so what
that means for at least today isn't
going through like the ipfs config stuff
and just adding experimental Flags and
basically just hooking up the stuff
that's been done already and then I'm
going to take that and you know just
basically try and come up with some way
of testing it whether it's like
conventional tests or something external
we were talking about using fsx which is
a file system exerciser I think is what
the X is for but that that's something I
have to look at like going going forward
today they can fix that's pretty obvious
and then after that I kind of have to
think of which which of the things that
have been discussed in some of the other
issues like the epic there or even in
some of the research stuff basically
what is the most pressing issue to get
us towards something we can have that
will be like our thinkable in my opinion
I guess that's probably going to be
metadata some some method of having
metadata storage on the node yeah and
managing it so that's something I have
to look into it's probably going to be
something specific to this rather than
like a UNIX FS v2 or v 1.5 kind of thing
just because of the nature of how this
is going to have to work yeah that's a
lengthy update for me let's see anyone
have any questions on that before we you
know just a brief question on like what
your well your time looks like once hugo
lands the IQs over dannis puck and if
you need help with stuff totally so I'm
mostly just waiting on that once it's
there we already have some kind of
I don't know what you want to call it
it's an unfinished thing that does it
works with the prototypes that's that's
there but since it's not standard it's
not specs compliant or anything it would
just probably be a matter of adapting
that you fit this this back and write
test for it it's a little hard to do
that now since we only have that one
experimental name server that doesn't
the values and keys are backwards on
that one for whatever reason so yeah
once we standardize it I think it's just
fixing that up and it shouldn't take too
much time it depends on how involved
we're going to be with the spec work and
all that
let's see anything yeah follow-up
question when do you think you'll you
need input or are you good for a little
bit when you're saying ayah what we need
to talk about what would make sense to
do next so yeah I guess I will put a
I'll put a PAPR up first for some of the
work that should be reviewed like the
technical stuff and then I guess if you
want to call it design or direction or
something like that that should probably
go into a new issue of this same type
like like number 74 there something of
that size and we can just talk about it
as we go on I guess sounds like plan or
you know always feel free to reach out
to anyone on the team definitely or not
bother everybody no problems with that
one all right let's see Dirk do you
wanna go next
all right so last week myself and
Stephen works on this new this
proposal and so I kind of put together
an issue it's like a draft version of it
and brief and which elicited comment so
Hanna maybe a few comments there and in
the meantime I'm implementing a concept
I want to try to get to a point where I
can benchmarking to make sure that's
actually going to you know have the
improvements that we're expecting and so
hopefully I'll be able to get a
benchmark on by the end of the week and
in the meantime like Panama has been
putting together a really really nice
test suite that's gonna be demoed later
tonight so once that's once that's can
I'm ready to go we can we can actually
do some benchmarks in like with real
machines and AWS any questions about
them all right Alex you know your name
sure so I've been trying to courier this
async it's very like adding a single
iterators to Joseph your best PR over
the mine and so is a big big PR which I
broke up into a bunch of small one so
the small ones will be merged ivory
based the basic is rates and adding
agent integrators lon
and like the tests along with Joseph has
passed but the interface test phone
passed because it needs a new version
HTTP client which then depends on some
other stuff that needs to be merged
but update the right so it's the the
joke that like the ipfs the CTL module
which is what how the tests been up and
teardown demon so it uses to run the
tests work so that has been ported to
acing iterators and there's a PR
outstanding on jeaious ipfs to pull that
in but it's failing on Windows because
Windows basically there's like a bunch
of outstanding work that needs to be
done to pull over the line and I feel
quite bad about just dumping all that
Alan's laugh because he's only human and
only has two hands to type quick so yeah
I'm going to try and in the South which
is annoying because I was going to pick
up the go ipfs add performance
improvements but I just thinking can
leave the trade base in the state for
this and because we have all the stuff
backing up and it's getting really hard
to are great things so that's you know
you guys wish I could be more helpful
I have two hands but they don't do those
things
now called Steven Jonathan
and again Michael do you want to tell us
about the work that you've been up to
sure sure
- we pull up the dog it's a little bitty
done with this section though I don't
want to like interrupt your your whole
sort of regular reading flow alright I
suppose I should give it a quick update
I suppose sorry it Steven it took me a
second to parse what you actually said
that's why there was a long pause Thank
You Molly for filling in
so here I'll give my quick thing which
is just that same as last week making
progress on all of this we always have a
bunch of small like get backs or
whatever from retro and I'm going
through all of our old retro Docs to
make sure those battement and I have and
so for this week there's let's see I
think there's an issue for this okay
we've got the package manager okay our
thing which is so close and Molly I saw
your note about scoring so we'll get
that this week and maybe there's no
humanity to make one but updating the
the readme and other documentation
around what we do to include the just
what we've been up to this this quarter
and make that a bit clearer because the
the we've there's been an open action
from the beginning of the quarter to
turn you know that is the repo is no
longer just kind of research we though
we've got some other things going on so
let's make sure that's updated and
people can be clear about what we're
doing
yep so I've got something started here
on my computer but I'll put in a PR on
that hopefully soon when my lymph nodes
aren't going crazy anyways okay any
questions for me or things that excuse
me that you would like me to move up on
my a to-do list
you
and then Molly I don't know if you had
anything to update the team on or like
you said we can pass it over to that
Michael and he can share what he's up to
yeah I think let's help over to Michael
I don't have any anything pressing on my
end got it
beautiful hi Michael what do you need
you're on meat sorry sorry I got lost
there for a second and iPad windows umm
yeah should I share my screen with the
doc for a second sure it's not Michael
we're supposed to be a window that comes
up but my screen sharing is broken I
know so okay
yay iOS yeah yeah hold on let me grab a
link for it I think I actually did turn
on link sharing first I should do that
anyway Oh Molly got a thing is that what
you wanted yeah um I just turned on oh
there we go yeah that works
cookin so this year the long short of it
is that there there's a pretty big
migration right now that's gonna have to
happen in the JavaScript ecosystem so
there's about a million modules and then
p.m. with just a lot and there is now a
module standard towards browser and
people have been like quote-unquote
using this module standard for a long
time through compilers and so it gets a
little complicated to sort of keeping
your head like this is actually like a
rather new thing in terms of people
using it natively in the browser and
writing modules that work natively with
out a compiled tool chain but that's
always been the intention of the
standard is to you know enable browsers
to have a native module system that
doesn't require extra tooling very
little things um if you try to use it
today you you end up in this huge box
where you actually can't use anything
from him including all the stuff that is
quote like in the new module standard
because all of it assumes that you're
running it through a compiled tool chain
it actually breaks to try to use it
natively in the browser which is quite
interesting um this kind of provides an
interesting opportunity in that you kind
of need a new registry and a new sort of
package management flow for this new
style of module for one thing if you do
it right a package registry could open
up every module ever created without a
sort of install step
without like a sort of package
management step you could just like rely
on it essentially it could just be like
available as the moment that it's
published which is a very different flow
than any of the JavaScript package
managers have right now it could be him
and because there's such a small
selection but I mean I think selective
public zero right now of stuff in TM
that actually works natively in this
environment it's not a stretch to build
a new registry for it because it has
such a different flow and because you
know you're actually there is kind of a
compatibility break that's gonna happen
here I had done some experiments with
this thing called bundle sync which the
idea was that if we're abandoned like
using some ipfs technologies but not all
of my PFS we could Ravin encode the
chunks and then move around like this
list of parts for bundles rather than
loading javascript bundles in the
browser this is like sort of the old way
of alkyl chains one of the things that I
noticed that kind of breaks down in our
stack is that the moment that you start
running stuff through compressors rabbin
just doesn't get demin is not as good
and in order to get like sufficient
deduplication of ram and you have to
like bring down the chunk size and then
that means that the description of the
data is actually quite large because you
have like a very long list of hashes
because there's so many small parts and
then it doesn't kind of justify itself
the amazing thing about this new module
standard is that like nobody is
compressing and minifying these modules
like they just load up a tab a browser
so we can rabbit include them really
effectively and it shows a lot of the
new location benefits that we have the
problems with this module standard are
that like there are all these glaring
performance issues that the they
advocates of the module system and the
browser vendors are saying look like
people can solve this the transport
layer they keep just saying like people
will figure out how to solve this at the
transport layer effectively what they
think is that like some very fancy
server side thing will start using HTTP
2 and push in order to sort of prefetch
all of these modules um nobody's
actually built this yet like like I've
seen demos that sort of show that it
doesn't work that well but I'm like
nobody's actually like doing doing well
what we could do is something different
in between so we can solve the
performance issues in a similar way but
do it actually in the client in a
serviceworker where we have a local
effectively like an IP FS native store
and I'll get into sort of like how this
separates from from all of my theaters
in a second but like in NTFS datastore
in the serviceworker that would be able
to pull down all these modules and do
all the rapid dipping and do all the
prefetching so it could solve these
performance issues and you would get
really efficient deduplication and you
could get stuff that we we don't have it
all on the web right now like background
updates right so when you update your
application we could get all those
assets in the background while the
application is running a little service
workers running and by the time you load
the new application the code is just
there so this can solve like a lot of
like kind of common performance issues
I'm using a lot of our technology so
anything in the critical path that would
affect page load would have to be pulled
out of a central service so even though
we're using like like a UNIX defensins
kind of I feel be underneath the hood we
would need like a point-to-point
protocol that's very very fast because
anything that would increase the page
load time is like noticeable you user
performance issues but once we have the
initial code what we have like what was
effectively loaded from a cold start we
can serve those those files that were
loaded in the idea this network and all
of that in update infrastructure which I
think over time would probably end up
being the majority of the actual
transfer like data fans for him that
could actually live in the ftfs network
because none of that would cause any
noticeable user lag so it's it's a very
interesting opportunity for us if we
want to kind of go after it it's a
little bit greenfield we know that the
space is going to expand really
dramatically and you know even if we
didn't get like some giant market share
I think that we would end up exposing a
lot of developers to the primitives that
we've been building but yeah that was
sort of the this idea that I landed on
and tried to write up here there's like
a lot of background in a lot of kind of
technical details of like why NPM isn't
just gonna pour easily to this then I'm
trying to write up succinctly but I'm
sure that there's some details by
seconds for questions people have
from Michelle since you can't see me
because uh one of the work I what am I
trying to say
this quarter we've been poking on some
of the core ipfs performance issues that
are preventing other you know that's
from engaging with other package manager
work is is do you know if taking this
round is essentially different or if it
seems to me we'd have the same
performance issues and we need to solve
those anyways I'm not sure what I'd yeah
have you along different paths if this
is a different path or if it's the kind
of same sort of thing you would end up
changing more next quarter than this
quarter so it's sort of it needs unit 52
for some complicated issues that I can
give into with codex in a little bit it
really needs you necessity to to be
performant and I'm working on new
accessory to any way and like plan to
have a JavaScript version by the end of
the quarter and that's kind of like the
main prerequisites of us working as far
as other performance work according any
performance working JSI PFS would
certainly port but none of this is using
the go infrastructure like go idea
that's at any point so none of that
would directly translate over but it's
not like that would be wasted work at
all and then I think some of the issues
that other package managers are dealing
with may not be the same problems that
we're dealing with here I'm not like I'm
not as deep into all of those priorities
but certainly any any performance work
or features that were added on the tiers
that the other side would probably
prefer well and and obviously all of the
interest ricci work will pour it over
okay
their hand if no one has one but I'm
gonna see if anyone else has looks like
a Dean hand-raised yeah so just I'm not
100% sure I I grasp all it's gone on
here so just like clarifying a little
bit um the idea basically just to have
your your browser like fetchin basically
just cache updates for you our cache
like blocks for you based on their
hashes that like the TLDR for like
instead of yeah no well so what happens
is that the so in in imports basically
like a module import in the browser
turns into an HTTP fetch basically like
an HD get call we can intercept that in
the serviceworker
and then turn that into like you know a
call in to effectively MF s like a
needle file instance locally like in a
local cache so it's using like
effectively ipfs should just say like
for this Earl space all these files are
going to come out of idea fess and since
we know that all of these like because
we own this publishing point we know
that they're all being rather than
chunked and and all of that we know that
there's going to be actually like very
efficient chunking by hash of all these
files that accept and because we own the
publishing point we can do stuff like
when a module gets published look at the
import graph and then if somebody is
doing a cold start we can ask we can
basically say like do like a sort of
grasping style request over that import
graph so just hand me everything that
you know that I'm gonna need if I don't
have a cache for this whole file which
is the thing that all the es and
advocates have been saying needs to be
built that nobody's don't yet they're
all thinking of it as sort of like a
server-side push thing rather than like
this much more advanced sort of - okay
yeah
I guess I'm just trying to like think a
little bit about whether the people are
trying to solve this not and I confess I
kill deal and they're just gonna rely on
like okay what they're called basically
like the the signed signed assets to
just have cash signed assets and get
like a good chunk of the benefits that's
not so much more work
what do you mean that because I mean if
the if the idea is just like I have to
fetch things I'll fetch them over HTTP
from somewhere then I'll have I'll have
I'll have hashed things so I know that
they're the same across various
different websites whenever I need a
module then even without like IP LD and
multi formats you you can still get like
right there's like a standard forgetting
like forgetting like hashed objects from
no webpack I it's you talk about web
packaging yeah I'm talking about the
yeah the like assets that are assets
that are like hashed ensign
yeah so that's a different standard that
is currently stalled so that was
developed like Google it's effectively a
way to take what they do in EMP and sort
of turn it what they want to do for an P
and turn it into a web standard a little
bit more generic but what what if what
effectively what it does is it uses the
SSL certificate just sign a bunch of
individual HTTP assets and then hand
them to you in one gauge bundle so that
gives you HTTP level resource caching at
the file level it doesn't give you
deduplication within the files like we
get with rap in chicken
so we still have like a performance
upgrade over that for certain and as far
as like us maybe leveraging web
packaging I don't see a huge benefit if
if we have the service order there and
we can already get like you know an
entire sort
asset tree and and even within that
asset tree we had video application I
wouldn't I don't see why we would end up
using my packaging and and like I said
the standard is actually stalled because
um Mozilla is objecting to it like on
principle so I don't actually I don't
think that that's going to go anywhere
um the Dietrich has been a little bit
more involved in that I think and Jim
tech I think has been involved
okay so Michelle's question what's the
big selling point to package manager
maintainer and if a consumer so the
biggest benefit to a consumer is that
they don't have to use a quote unquote
package manager like there there is no
pull this down and run it into my
compiled chain step it's literally like
I I just start using modules and I can
use anything in the entire industry so
it's like actually a really nice much
better workflow from web developer
perspective on their end as long as you
can solve these performance problems
that are there with the SM then it's a
huge benefit to them and a much easier
sort of package consumption experience
on the package for I think package
manager maintainer that would be us in
this case I think patent package
maintainer czar certainly an audience
though like package maintainer is that
people publishing packages and I mean
the benefit to them literally is that
you know it's very easy for anybody to
now use their package I think like early
in a new ecosystem like this the
incentives are a little bit different
than they are in like a long lending
system I think that like if you have
something new that's using a lot of like
newer technologies a lot of the people
that show up are actually the people
that want that are like interested in
green field spaces and want to publish
the first packages in that space like in
like I think that you know the first
people that like you know do their web
framework all in this way style you know
will get you know some cool points or
whatever and that attracts a lot of
people we saw this in the early node.js
days too because we also had like no
packages and everybody got to show up
and write all the first stuff and then
the tracks like a certain type of person
but I think like over time the benefit
really is that like this is a way for me
to publish my work you
to a global ecosystem that is
immediately accessible to every browser
user in the world yeah I really didn't
figure out that this would be a thing
until I started trying to actually use
yes I'm in the browser natively and
quickly realized that I just I couldn't
use anything from NPM that you sort of
are on your own
like yeah you're running all of your own
dependencies from scratch now because
there is no package manager overlay
that's only doing like new style
packages some resource integrity yes
looking at this there's definitely a it
runs a little abreast of a anti goal we
set for ourselves in terms of having
having kind of large-scale package
manager infrastructure that we would
then have to run for the foreseeable
future in the in terms of the the
centralized registry component I kind of
I have a spidey sense that that's going
to be actually a lot more work than than
the couple bullets
it seems within this talk and that like
the gateways will actually end up
investing like if we if we proceed this
pursue this forward and it even has like
modest uptake continuing to to support
that and make it a good experience for
people and not burn them might might be
a significant chunk of effort so that
should be like I guess weighed against
the other the other side of things yeah
so I did you know I was trying to text
and the chat actually only sent it to a
Dean but that was before Dean sorry I'll
I'll get back to that in a second to
respond to Andrew so I did some of this
already on consular workers when I was
doing the bundles thang experiment
because I was thinking like it would be
nice that this was just
already in a CD end and even the sort of
smart end of it was also like had an
edge cash and it's just a lot less
infrastructure to run because you we're
not putting servers we're not managing
all that stuff it's just sort of like
automated and it's certainly doable too
like we could do all of this with cloud
letter orders definitely you you have to
kind of pare down the number of codecs
and hashes that you're gonna use but
since we own the publishing side of it
we can make sure that like we're not
just taking arbitrary like blocks and
however that doesn't mean that there's
nothing to ever manage and that there's
not like a potential cost Center um so
and for instance like I'm using the
club's our key value store which is
incredibly fast and really nice and you
know it also has a 2 Meg block limit so
it's like really really fits nicely
inside of our stack actually um but uh
one of the problems with isn't like I
don't know what the cost structure of
that would look like over time and if we
would have to actually like move to a
different storage structure and then
just use cloud for workers as sort of
the compute layer as a computer it's
it's pretty cheap you know it's
comparable to other service offerings
even though it's all edge so yeah I
think that it can be built in a way that
would minimize our load over time but I
don't know that it can be built in a way
that would minimize our cost
indefinitely so we would want to look at
opportunities to reduce that cost like
maybe partnering with with Leffler and
saying like hey when you kind of
co-sponsor this with us and host the
infrastructure like something like that
I think could really help us but yeah
I'm much less worried about the
infrastructure maintenance side of it
because we can build it this way but I
am worried about the infrastructure cost
still so so yeah Andrew if so enter
gonna come into my pika so pikas awesome
I love them and a lot of this I don't I
don't think that I would have gotten to
this place sort of mentally I hadn't dug
into the pika stuff before but pika is
sort of punting on on both the registry
and the transport so pika is trying to
find modules an NPM that they can sort
of make work
with how to compile step which is like a
pretty minimal set and then they they're
not doing anything with the transport
layer so all of the performance problems
that I talked about earlier with like
every individual file basically being a
new round trip that's all still an issue
with pica and they they're I don't think
that they're even really working on that
I think they're actually looking at like
how can they improve some of the other
parts the experience so I think that if
we did something interesting enough that
they would end up by they're like using
our stuff or merging with us or like I
didn't go there one end up being a lot
of collaboration there I don't think
that they would end up competing
yeah I mean I I didn't I didn't say the
thing about cloud Flair sort of offhand
either I think that like there there may
actually be a real opportunity there for
us to partner with them they're they're
really looking for like they would love
it if all of new JavaScript developers
were pulling for their infrastructure
they would definitely love that there
they already the node.js foundation uses
them as a CDN for all of for all of no
de estar balls and they provided that
for free for years so like they've done
this before for open source projects
there they're really into it they also
like love our technology stack and have
done a bunch of sort of I fee that's
related stuff so it's not unthinkable
that we partner with them so Michelle
hey yeah I want to have a chance to read
your document in full and give it some
thought but I'm worried that we've spent
a lot of time over last year so I
suppose or two years doing some really
neat you know examples of what the
future could look like and we haven't
had a chance to solve core performance
issues and go ipfs and other things that
are preventing like general uptake of
the technology so I'd be worried that if
we add this without having more people
on the team in general and I give us to
like help manage it it'll distract from
just doing core like improvements to our
technology that we really need to do to
make it so that like not just the the
folks that you were talking about
Michael the people are excited about new
stuff
I want to use it that we can actually
solve some problems for folks but I
definitely want to take a look at the
dock and so you've got there and hear
what other people have to say yeah well
in terms of resourcing this wouldn't
pull anybody from go even if we went all
in on it because literally all of the
work is in JavaScript including the the
worker stuff but I mean you could still
see it having a huge impact there and
it's not like we don't have the same
sort of needs and wants of growth more
generically on the side the other side
so it definitely still applies like I
said like the sort of the most important
parts of if I'm gonna have to build this
corner anyway and so there'll be sort of
meaningful progress in that direction so
we have quite a while to just sort of
like think about it and stew on it
before we need to think about
prioritizing or resourcing it or you
know little you know taking anything
else off of the plate or off of our
priority list so you know I'll continue
to kind of plug away at it and and maybe
get something demo a bowl and then at
that point you know if it's something
that we feel like investing and further
than we could maybe change some
resourcing of it but I don't think that
this needs to pull away from anything
that we're currently working on right
now and I don't think that it really
warrants it at this stage got it thanks
I just want to say it's a really cool
idea you know it's it's really nice to
hear your like exploring something
that's kind of going in a very very
ambitious direction and I like the idea
of doing something much more efficiently
than what's out there at the moment so I
definitely it's worth with kind of
pursuing somewhere at least to see to
have my abilities in practice yeah yeah
yeah I should I think it's gonna be it's
gonna be interesting I've been sort of
disappointed that people haven't done
more things on the transport layer 3sm
yet and because like there's maybe
mitad a huge collection of performance
issues with it as it stands and nobody's
really worked very hard to change that
and I think one of the reasons it's just
that everyone is stuck in this flow of
compiling their modules and like because
everybody's compiling their module if
they can't really get a lot of benefits
out of this this new native system but
once you start using native modules in
the browser it's just such a nice
workflow like it's it's really really
desirable once you kind of go all in
so yeah I think that there's also some
new browser standards that would make
this even nicer for us there's like this
import map standard that could make some
of the the pre-loading happen like
immediately before even the
serviceworker is installed and stuff
like that so things are gonna keep
progressing like in the web platform in
a direction that like aligns and even
like improved this idea so but at the
same time like I don't see anybody
really working on this problem all that
diligently so it's not like we we need
to change everything we're doing and
going on it like we can keep messing
with it
yeah I guess my next question there
would be um do you think it's something
that we could get people excited about
enough that they'll work on it for us I
mean it needs to be working and then the
work it needs like yeah I think that
people can actually use and then I think
yeah a lot of people I think would help
out um like there are parts of it that
I'm not as worried about doing a ton of
development on like you know making the
the command line you know have a bunch
of cool features like people will fill
that part in I'm not bringing about that
I'm much more worried about like let's
just get sort of a basic publishing and
consumption flow down and get the
infrastructure work thing and to a point
where it sort of scales easily yeah so
there's some stuff about tank and
entropic so I've actually I've talked to
the Isaac quite a bit about tank because
we still hang out of a few months um so
one of the things that is going to weigh
and pay it down in this transition is
that the moment that you use any of the
existing sort of million modules from
NPM from one of these new style modules
you now can't use the
module natively because part of its like
Deb tree now has this thing in it that
actually needs a compile step so it's
it's more of an ecosystem problem it's
actually it's very similar to the issues
that um like you know Python has had for
years trying to adopt like new
concurrency patterns which is that they
have this huge ecosystem of modules that
use blocking i/o and then when you try
to use non-blocking i/o you you're like
now in this corner you go system at the
moment you use one of these you like
break your entire sort of service and so
like they're gonna have a very similar
problem getting like the existing and
kami ecosystem to function well with
like a native system yeah in tropic it's
sort of built on content disability I'd
like I mean we can get more into
entropic at some point but I'm not gonna
put a lot of faith in that project for a
variety of reasons like I don't think
that that's really gonna go anywhere
like you know more power to them if they
if they do um
I mean they're not have a feel about the
maintainer they're not the people that I
would choose to do that like they're not
great at like building a community or
working with others supporting an
ecosystem but yeah I don't know um
yeah I mean I've worked at the mill of
stuff they're very smart engineers but
well I I don't like it's very hard to
see heartbreak in the npm ecosystem for
any reason other than like npm literally
failing like like literally just going
offline or collapsing entirely um you
know and like I've seen people try to
replace like you know Ruby pack Avengers
the Python package managers and and
often doing like a lot of like better
features and stuff like that and and at
the end of the day they make sort of a
dent
I mean we saw this a little bit with
yarn right which was like you know like
they had the benefit of like the largest
framework in like blunders days from
work in the world like you know pushing
their stuff and and really hyping them
and
um they're still like you know not a
huge factor in terms of the overall
ecosystem I think that like like the the
shift here like if you're gonna think
about a new package management or
JavaScript there has to be something
more fundamental that's gonna push
people in that direction and I think
that that is this just native module
experience that is now enabled in the
browser like we've been using modules in
the browser exceeds compile chains for
like 10 years
so people haven't really noticed how
different it is and how much the
platform has caught up when you're doing
things natively yeah um
Oh Dino yeah Ryan yeah I talked with
Ryan a lot about Dino actually um do you
know it has some interesting ideas about
package management and about how sort of
modules should work it could be
interesting I think that like most
things in the browser once you're
working in the browser you're now living
in the constraints and postulating about
a lot of like things that could work
that are that don't work at all on the
browser today or would require like you
know again like an entire compile step
or something like aren't all that
interesting one of the constraints in
the browser is that like an import it's
going to turn into an HP call like
that's always going to happen and that
severely limits what you can do in terms
of hooks and in terms of mutations in
the module system there is no like
actual sort of hook infrastructure
there's a way for you to turn names into
pearl spaces at the end of the day like
if you want to do something different
with how that module is fetched you
can't manipulate it at the level of the
import statement you have to do it at
the HTTP layer in the service work there
um or in the backend it's like good
browser constraints are incredibly
complicated and they're multiplicative
so like when you layer one on another
you're like it here to continue to botch
yourself in a more and more corner and
none of the the existing package manager
is like in topic or NPM or really
anybody
are trying to live within the
constraints at the browser all of them
come from some node background like like
me honestly and so you're used to having
this incredibly flexible environment
where you can literally do anything and
then you can you know throw anything to
inquire and just sort of make it work in
the browser if things look very
different what to live in this native
the space yeah yeah yeah there's a
comment to that xhr and when people
realize that that such I could do things
that was a really important thing though
because like people feel it realize that
if things are could you think right when
Microsoft stop dumping a browser when
they had done that market share so
literally like the only new things that
happen in web development for like four
or five years with xhr and all the kind
of hacks on top of it and then you know
Missoula had to take enough market share
away from Microsoft that actual like new
things in the web platform could I think
I'm done is there anything else I
wouldn't mind talking about experience
with speaker browser Paul is building
bigger browsers sort of arrived at this
yet try experimenting with yes modules a
year ago and it's just for the exact
same reasons like because it's like if
you don't remove the bundler from the
equation works really well with
decentralized use case and everything
gets cash everywhere it's actually
pretty awesome and also an appoint
another project from the dot community
which actually works on ipfs from Ranger
Bob he seemed that that 2.0 leading that
and before he got that contract he's
working on this project when in his
little projects it's called web read and
it allows you to run sort of unbundled
yes modules for nodejs please the same
modules that you use in the browser yeah
you can put them on like FS and then
load them into node or dad
so this using a compiler to make them
run or not I think you're just you're
basically taking modules that are
written for the web first and it's a
loader for node which loads them I think
it's a look you know it's a bit like
what Dino's doing but it's using a you
know dad or ipfs interesting so I'll dig
into this okay yeah so he's not a
polyfill yeah I'm actually you meet the
the conference in Toronto our networking
so oh I see again this is this is
interesting so so basically he's doing
like he's got a ton of polyfills for all
the browser stuff so that you can run
most of other stuff in there yeah and
then I see like unless he's using node
12 with the experimental module flag
then he's probably loading them how
interesting
yeah I also like getting bigger browser
I think Paul's been just writing zero
bundling for the past year so all the
new code that's going into a bigger
browser is often written in this style
using modules so so one cool thing here
if you look at this syntax down down the
way for importing from that URL and from
an IP FS URL so you can do that in node
because know it has a hooks
infrastructure in inside of its like the
new modules and tags to do that you
can't do that in the browser like they
turn into HP year-olds but if we have a
serviceworker installed what you could
do instead is just have an Earl space
that is like underscore at the FS so I'm
just want that and then all of those get
pulled out of the ipfs network in the
den note so you can you can do the same
thing it's just the syntax looks a
little different once you have to run it
to the web worker yeah I sort of
at the bottom in the future section 2
which is like if if you have this the
service worker that a lot of people are
using in their apps you can start to
just sort of add other protocols and you
don't even have to really pollute the
bundle you can have all that get loaded
and dynamically once people request
stuff out of those networks you can do
some pretty cool stuff
okay so reproducibility of the
dependency graph locks and bundlers yes
yes so um yeah I didn't I didn't want to
get into that because it gets like
really it gets really nerdy and early
detailed but um effectively so because
this is like an IPL be the registry of
the methyl-p graph and so the uh Tildy
graph has like you know every name of
every package a link to some metadata
and a link to in a unix of sq2 directory
so that means that you know the the
content for the content in the middie
and everything is all hashed right and
every release of that is all hashed so
if you want to do something like a lock
for instance you could really easily
generate um like a hash of that entire
tree and then load and then specifically
load that hash so you lock like creating
sort of lock infrastructure is really
easy once we're on top of sort of once
the industry is on top of this content
address tree there's also some
interesting stuff so one of the problems
that you have with these modules is that
if you're loading modules from different
locations and you do an update you could
potentially get one of the old modules
and one of the new ones right like it's
you have the same thing if you just load
a bunch of script tags and you just did
a big push to the infrastructure you you
could potentially wind up in a weird
situation where people get like half of
the resources for the new site and half
of the ones for the old one unless you
have like really complicated
infrastructure to solve that but in this
system the registry has a single hash
for the root node the equity graph so at
the point that the application loads we
can actually lock the State of the
registry and know that every dependency
like all the dependency resolutions are
getting
the right thing even if you didn't
explicitly lock it right and then once
an update happens we can go into a lot
of those updates and then also go from
like load the application again from the
same state so we can start producing
like much better guarantee than much
easier sort of block state from you know
it once we have things
what's the registry is content addressed
essentially so yeah there's a lot of
really really good stuff that you can do
there I'm unlike on the same train in
terms of locking all the dependencies
and everything and having all that
functionality though I had a hand on a
slightly different topic um we're just
I've think I'm subscribed to ipfs notes
or something and noticed some movement
in the last three days or so on a note
about IP FSA Nix integration which was
curious if folks had taken a look at it
kind of toward the end turned turning to
more of a thought thought exercise
around blockchain layers and and using
that as kind of a layer above these
sorts of things but there's like maybe a
useful useful discussion to to continue
jumping on to see if there's kind of
current movement on the next side and um
and if any particular things they need
from us seemingly there are some
actively interested humans who might be
worth reaching out to
now use next more than a decade
it seems like a natural fit like just
because everything's hashed um hold on
here Steven are you are you gonna call
yes I'm gonna call yeah this comment
that he has about a new CID format which
is just to see IDs smushed together if
they're reason why he why he can't just
have a block that is two links and then
went to the blocking if that's yeah okay
there isn't it ya know why wouldn't ya
Basu he wants to have only point to the
source don't wanna delete the code or
something great you're right yeah I mean
ideally we'd have units of sb2 or
something like that where we can have
metadata and then like you can have like
a binary that ends up also have the
points the source yeah no this is
definitely not a case where we'd want a
second CID like that's not what C 80
points to content because you really
wouldn't want to have like if you have
two pieces of content that are like not
necessarily provably related then you
want a signature there and not a hash
because I was meaningless right you're
like I don't know how you compiled a
into B so I have no idea if these two
things are actually the same or
different things all right well the two
big mature nicks does provide that sort
of rightness quicks does I don't think
things as well we're like it's trying to
be reproducible so the build script
tells you exactly how much you get if
you find a lot but you could in theory
check it and the ideas that people would
check this and like you get you'd ask
multiple parties like okay what's the
hash of this these things than you but
yeah like honest in this case he should
just like point to then just you point
to a see where object that has these two
piece information and then maybe other
metadata as a lot of he somewhat a
discrete shuffle this block I guess I
would prefer having like being
to accumulate collections of signatures
of people who said yes in fact a does
turn into B because the idea is that I'm
just gonna use B without actually
checking that it came from a most of the
time I think you here's that would be up
to the package manager that's how it
currently works well like you have a set
of trusted nodes every one R so it's a
set of drastic builders effectively I
think really you just trust a single
dollar second right now if this drunk um
so we're I have that issue open about
the deeps Enix sp1 adding file metadata
well it's adding file like permission
data it's all structured right now
should we add just like a generic string
field that we don't say what it should
be like yeah ideally would be ideally we
could just add an arbitrary CID but we
don't because everything is typed where
we don't want to like we don't want to
add a field just for this use case and
do we want to have something there so
that when people do hacks they're not
like the worst hacks ever but in theory
we can just add a link to another object
and then make that other object to see
for object you can see what everyone in
it or explain whatever you want you can
see whatever you want it's like we have
a metadata field it has the type of CID
they just points to anything the problem
with this is I don't think we can do
this is because of like these up and
down go then you have hacks all over the
place that assume that all the links
coming from files are pointing to blocks
in the file for like because they are
easy dag protobuf which is weird this
isn't one of the other reason was which
way from that yeah all right um I'll
poke around this little bit and see if
maybe we can do something before I land
those and changes to the COBOL cool
beautiful
good timing everybody cuz right time so
continue the conversation any last
you've ten seconds you can say a thing
otherwise
strap off alright see you next time
thanks everybody
you